# Jennifer Sheng (jss8ny) Android App
Starter Template for the Android UVA Bucket List app

# Special Features:
 When looking at my main activity, one special feature you will notice is that the pre-populated data is divided into three different colors: red, blue, and green. Those bucket list items that are highlighted in red represent items that have a due date that is past the current date, signifying to the user that the item is past due. Blue is the default color to the bucket list items, representing a typical item that has not been completed yet. Lastly, green items are ones that have been checked off, and hence have been completed. The other feature on the items is the “x” on the upper right corner of each item. This is a straightforward way in which items can be deleted from the complete list.
 
 When adding to/editing the list, the respective activity will be shown on the screen, as a pop-up. Besides clicking the arrow on the top left of the pop-up to return back to the main activity however, the user can also click anywhere that is not the pop-up on the dimmed background in order to go back to the main activity. 
 
As for closing and reopening the app, since the list items are done through permanent storage in a database, the instance state is saved when the app is closed. Thus when a user opens the app again, the list items from the previous session should still persist.

# What I Learned:
When starting to create the app, I was not sure what to expect going into it, as I have never attempted to build one before. I started by building the database that the bucket list items would be stored in and, as I was trying to pass such data to different functions and activities, I was shocked at the complexity of doing such seemingly simple tasks. Having to figure out what needs to be passed where and how the functions should be set up to properly do this honestly confused me at first and took me some time to understand how things like intents need to be passed in order for certain files to be receiving the correct information.

Beside the complexity of passing data, I also was not expecting how seemingly intuitive and minor functionalities of any given app was something in which I had to explicitly write out one, if not many, functions for. For example, I had to write multiple functions and listeners in order to get something as simple as a checkbox to be doing what I wanted it to or for the date picker to update and save what the user had picked. 

From a more UI/UX perspective, I was very excited about how surprisingly intuitive XML formatting is and its similarity to other design languages like HTML. Having had experience with HTML in the past, learning how to work with code though XML was much more intuitive than I initially imagined, which made creating the layouts of each activity fast and efficient.

Overall during my time making this Android app, I learned a lot about the details many mobile developers face on a daily basis in order to implement even the simplest of functionalities. While a bucket list app has limited components for it to be a usable list, the implementation of functions is much more than meets the eye. When implementing things logically, I often found myself noticing the code doing weird things, stopping working altogether, or not implementing the changes I expected it to. In fact, sometimes I would find myself changing one small thing and the whole thing would no longer work. For every small implementation, there would be multiple ways that it could be implemented through examples I would find and many functions that could be used, often leading much of my time building the app as trying to find the best method that would allow my app to do what I was hoping to implement.
